README.md, before:


> [!CAUTION]  
> This project is not actively maintained. Development is sporadic and handled by a single developer, so it cannot be relied upon.
> 
> There are currently some critical [bugs](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/issues) that make it largely unusable—input jitter and unregistered key releases are common issues.  
> [Version 0.6.0](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/releases/tag/0.6.0) appears more stable, so it's recommended for now.
> 
> Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to help, feel free to submit a [Pull Request](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/pulls).
> 
> Thanks for your understanding.

<div align="center">

# ![](Key2Joy.Gui/Graphics/Icons/icon256.png?raw=true)<br> Key2Joy

**Simulate a Joystick/Controller/Gamepad using your keyboard, mouse or other triggers.**

[![build-test-and-pre-release](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/actions/workflows/build-test-and-pre-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/actions/workflows/build-test-and-pre-release.yml)
[![Test Code Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/luttje/Key2Joy/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/luttje/Key2Joy?branch=main)

</div>

In addition to simply simulating a button being pressed on the Joystick, you can also write Javascript and Lua scripts to execute a more complex sequence of actions.

---

## System Requirements

* Windows 8.1, Windows 10 or Windows 11
* [.NET Framework 4.8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet-framework/net48), which has been included in Windows since `Windows 10 May 2019 Update (version 1903)`

## Installation

1. *(Optional)* I advise you [create a System Restore Point](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/create-a-system-restore-point-77e02e2a-3298-c869-9974-ef5658ea3be9)
2. Download a binary from the [releases of this repo](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/releases)
3. Extract all files to the same location

## Usage

> [!WARNING]
> **Use at your own risk!** Incorrect driver (un)installation may cause a blue screen. 
> *Read the [`Uninstalling` section](#uninstalling) below to find out how to uninstall the driver.*

### Using Key2Joy with a Graphical User Interface

1. Start **![](Key2Joy.Gui/Graphics/Icons/icon16.png?raw=true) Key2Joy.exe**
2. *(First time only)* Accept installation of the Scp Virtual Bus Driver
3. Use the default mappings, modify them by double-clicking a row in the mapping-list, or add new mappings.

   ![Screenshot showing the overview window. Off to the side the mapping dialog is showing all available actions.](Docs/screenshot.png)

   **A trigger** is something that Key2Joy will listen for. *E.g: a mouse move, key press, key release, etc...*

> [!NOTE]
> **Default behaviour of a trigger is disabled by default**. This means setting the left mouse button as a trigger will make it so you can't left-click anymore until you abort this app.

   **An action** is what will happen when that trigger occurs. *E.g: simulating a joystick button being pressed, a keyboard button being released, or executing a Lua/Javascript script.*

4. Click the *Connect* button for Key2Joy to start listening for triggers that will execute the configured actions.

5. When you're done using Key2Joy, click the *Disconnect* button to stop listening for triggers.

   *In the default profile there is also a mapping that stops Key2Joy from listening using the `Escape`-key. Don't forget to include such a mapping for your custom profiles.*

> [!NOTE]
> Check out the [🐕‍🦺 Tips & Tricks](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/discussions/categories/-tips-tricks) category in the discussions for tips and tricks. Certain inputs may be tricky to configure, but there's usually a way to get it working.

> [!WARNING]
> Please be careful using this tool in multiplayer/competitive games. It may be considered cheating and get you banned. Some games may only ban you after a while, so don't assume you're safe just because you haven't been banned yet.

### Using Key2Joy with a Command Line Interface

1. Run `Key2Joy.Cmd.exe enable` in a command-prompt:

   * This will start Key2Joy if it's not already running. *(Note: you need to have started the GUI app (Key2Joy.exe) at least once since installing)*
   * By default it will enable the last used profile
   * You can use `--profile default-profile` to specify which profile file to enable (you don't have to include the `.k2j.json` extension)

2. Running `Key2Joy.Cmd.exe disable` will disable the active profile


---

## Scripting

You can create scripts in Lua or Javascript that perform a sequence of actions with more complex logic.

Here is a simple example of a script that holds the "A" button on a gamepad for 500 ms and then stops simulating input:
```lua
Print("Hello World!")

GamePad.Simulate(GamePadControl.A, PressState.Press)
SetTimeout(function()
   GamePad.Simulate(GamePadControl.A, PressState.Release)
   App.Command("abort")
end, 500)
```

**You probably want to bind scripts only to the "Release" press state of triggers.** Otherwise a script will be executed both on key down AND up.

Full scripting reference is available in [Docs/Scripting.md](Docs/Scripting.md)

---

## Known Issues and Limitations

- Windows wont let you click if you release a mouse key that hasn't been pressed before.

- Keyboard triggers do not activate when the app is in the foreground.

- If you run another app as administrator, Key2Joy can only simulate input in that app if Key2Joy is also running as administrator.

---

## Uninstalling

Use `ScpDriverInstaller.exe` to uninstall the driver. You can find the latest version here: [mogzol/ScpDriverInterface releases](https://github.com/mogzol/ScpDriverInterface/releases)

> [!WARNING]
> **Do not uninstall the driver through Device manager** or you'll end up with a corrupt driver installation which may cause a blue screen. You may be able to recover from this by starting Windows in Safe-mode, running `ScpDriverInstaller.exe` and choosing "Uninstall".

---

## Contributing

Please do not hesitate to [create an issue](/../../issues/new/) when you find a problem, or [submit a Pull Request](/../../pulls/) when you've made enhancements or fixed bugs.

*♥ Thanks in advance for your help!*

---

## Special Thanks 😍

Originally inspired by [JoyToKey](https://joytokey.net/en/), this project has since evolved to offer so much more. Our gratitude goes out to the following resources:

**NuGet Packages**:
- [📦 DavidRieman/SimWinInput](https://github.com/DavidRieman/SimWinInput) - Simulate gamepads from .NET.
- [📦 nefarius/ScpVBus](https://github.com/nefarius/ScpVBus) - The foundational driver enabling GamePad simulation.
- [📦 NLua](https://github.com/NLua/NLua) - Enables Lua scripting for actions.
- [📦 Jint](https://github.com/sebastienros/jint) - Supports JavaScript scripting for actions.
- [📦 ObjectListView](https://objectlistview.sourceforge.net) - Used for mapping listings in the GUI.
- [📦 Mono.Cecil](https://github.com/jbevain/cecil) - Reads attributes from plugin assemblies, underpinning the plugin system.

**Iconography**:
- [Silk Icons pack by Mark James](https://github.com/legacy-icons/famfamfam-silk/blob/master/LICENSE.md) - Provides the GUI icons.

---

## License

This software is license under [the MIT License (see LICENSE-file)](LICENSE). The licenses for other libraries and/or code used can be found in [the LICENSE-3RD-PARTY.txt file](LICENSE-3RD-PARTY.txt).

Commit message:

Soften warning about bugs and maintenance in README (#117)
* Revise readme project warning

* clarify that only 0.7.x is impacted

README.md, after:

> [!WARNING]
> Due to critical bugs impacting input processing in the 0.7.x releases, it's recommended to use [version 0.6.0](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/releases/tag/0.6.0) or 0.8.0 and later.
> 
> Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to help, feel free to submit a [Pull Request](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/pulls).
> 
> Thanks for your understanding.
>

<div align="center">

# ![](Key2Joy.Gui/Graphics/Icons/icon256.png?raw=true)<br> Key2Joy

**Simulate a Joystick/Controller/Gamepad using your keyboard, mouse or other triggers.**

[![build-test-and-pre-release](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/actions/workflows/build-test-and-pre-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/actions/workflows/build-test-and-pre-release.yml)
[![Test Code Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/luttje/Key2Joy/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/luttje/Key2Joy?branch=main)

</div>

In addition to simply simulating a button being pressed on the Joystick, you can also write Javascript and Lua scripts to execute a more complex sequence of actions.

---

## System Requirements

* Windows 8.1, Windows 10 or Windows 11
* [.NET Framework 4.8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet-framework/net48), which has been included in Windows since `Windows 10 May 2019 Update (version 1903)`

## Installation

1. *(Optional)* I advise you [create a System Restore Point](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/create-a-system-restore-point-77e02e2a-3298-c869-9974-ef5658ea3be9)
2. Download a binary from the [releases of this repo](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/releases)
3. Extract all files to the same location

## Usage

> [!WARNING]
> **Use at your own risk!** Incorrect driver (un)installation may cause a blue screen. 
> *Read the [`Uninstalling` section](#uninstalling) below to find out how to uninstall the driver.*

### Using Key2Joy with a Graphical User Interface

1. Start **![](Key2Joy.Gui/Graphics/Icons/icon16.png?raw=true) Key2Joy.exe**
2. *(First time only)* Accept installation of the Scp Virtual Bus Driver
3. Use the default mappings, modify them by double-clicking a row in the mapping-list, or add new mappings.

   ![Screenshot showing the overview window. Off to the side the mapping dialog is showing all available actions.](Docs/screenshot.png)

   **A trigger** is something that Key2Joy will listen for. *E.g: a mouse move, key press, key release, etc...*

> [!NOTE]
> **Default behaviour of a trigger is disabled by default**. This means setting the left mouse button as a trigger will make it so you can't left-click anymore until you abort this app.

   **An action** is what will happen when that trigger occurs. *E.g: simulating a joystick button being pressed, a keyboard button being released, or executing a Lua/Javascript script.*

4. Click the *Connect* button for Key2Joy to start listening for triggers that will execute the configured actions.

5. When you're done using Key2Joy, click the *Disconnect* button to stop listening for triggers.

   *In the default profile there is also a mapping that stops Key2Joy from listening using the `Escape`-key. Don't forget to include such a mapping for your custom profiles.*

> [!NOTE]
> Check out the [🐕‍🦺 Tips & Tricks](https://github.com/luttje/Key2Joy/discussions/categories/-tips-tricks) category in the discussions for tips and tricks. Certain inputs may be tricky to configure, but there's usually a way to get it working.

> [!WARNING]
> Please be careful using this tool in multiplayer/competitive games. It may be considered cheating and get you banned. Some games may only ban you after a while, so don't assume you're safe just because you haven't been banned yet.

### Using Key2Joy with a Command Line Interface

1. Run `Key2Joy.Cmd.exe enable` in a command-prompt:

   * This will start Key2Joy if it's not already running. *(Note: you need to have started the GUI app (Key2Joy.exe) at least once since installing)*
   * By default it will enable the last used profile
   * You can use `--profile default-profile` to specify which profile file to enable (you don't have to include the `.k2j.json` extension)

2. Running `Key2Joy.Cmd.exe disable` will disable the active profile


---

## Scripting

You can create scripts in Lua or Javascript that perform a sequence of actions with more complex logic.

Here is a simple example of a script that holds the "A" button on a gamepad for 500 ms and then stops simulating input:
```lua
Print("Hello World!")

GamePad.Simulate(GamePadControl.A, PressState.Press)
SetTimeout(function()
   GamePad.Simulate(GamePadControl.A, PressState.Release)
   App.Command("abort")
end, 500)
```

**You probably want to bind scripts only to the "Release" press state of triggers.** Otherwise a script will be executed both on key down AND up.

Full scripting reference is available in [Docs/Scripting.md](Docs/Scripting.md)

---

## Known Issues and Limitations

- Windows wont let you click if you release a mouse key that hasn't been pressed before.

- Keyboard triggers do not activate when the app is in the foreground.

- If you run another app as administrator, Key2Joy can only simulate input in that app if Key2Joy is also running as administrator.

---

## Uninstalling

Use `ScpDriverInstaller.exe` to uninstall the driver. You can find the latest version here: [mogzol/ScpDriverInterface releases](https://github.com/mogzol/ScpDriverInterface/releases)

> [!WARNING]
> **Do not uninstall the driver through Device manager** or you'll end up with a corrupt driver installation which may cause a blue screen. You may be able to recover from this by starting Windows in Safe-mode, running `ScpDriverInstaller.exe` and choosing "Uninstall".

---

## Contributing

Please do not hesitate to [create an issue](/../../issues/new/) when you find a problem, or [submit a Pull Request](/../../pulls/) when you've made enhancements or fixed bugs.

*♥ Thanks in advance for your help!*

---

## Special Thanks 😍

Originally inspired by [JoyToKey](https://joytokey.net/en/), this project has since evolved to offer so much more. Our gratitude goes out to the following resources:

**NuGet Packages**:
- [📦 DavidRieman/SimWinInput](https://github.com/DavidRieman/SimWinInput) - Simulate gamepads from .NET.
- [📦 nefarius/ScpVBus](https://github.com/nefarius/ScpVBus) - The foundational driver enabling GamePad simulation.
- [📦 NLua](https://github.com/NLua/NLua) - Enables Lua scripting for actions.
- [📦 Jint](https://github.com/sebastienros/jint) - Supports JavaScript scripting for actions.
- [📦 ObjectListView](https://objectlistview.sourceforge.net) - Used for mapping listings in the GUI.
- [📦 Mono.Cecil](https://github.com/jbevain/cecil) - Reads attributes from plugin assemblies, underpinning the plugin system.

**Iconography**:
- [Silk Icons pack by Mark James](https://github.com/legacy-icons/famfamfam-silk/blob/master/LICENSE.md) - Provides the GUI icons.

---

## License

This software is license under [the MIT License (see LICENSE-file)](LICENSE). The licenses for other libraries and/or code used can be found in [the LICENSE-3RD-PARTY.txt file](LICENSE-3RD-PARTY.txt).
